---
slug: pnpm
title: pnpm
authors: [af]
tags: [pnpm, frontend]
---

pnpm is a package manager for Node.js packages, or any other packages that are compatible with the npm ecosystem. It is optimized for fast installations and uses a shared cache for all packages.

why we use only pnpm is that it 1. saves disk space. 2. it solved the problem of phantom dependencies.

you will get a pnpm-lock.yaml file in your project. Ideally you don't need to commit it. For this file are to be a pure function of package.json. But in reality, we need to commit it. Some packages in package.json are labeled with a version range.

```json
{
  "dependencies": {
    "react": "^16.13.1",
    "react-dom": "^16.13.1"
  }
}
```

here ^ means that the version range is any version that is compatible.

When you run pnpm install, pnpm will install the latest version of react and react-dom. If you run pnpm install again, pnpm will install the latest version of react and react-dom again. This is because the version range is not fixed. If you commit the pnpm-lock.yaml file, pnpm will install the same version of react and react-dom every time you run pnpm install.

### under the hood

pnpm, much like maven, use hard link (and soft link).

Most single files are stored in the ~/.pnpm-store folder, based on hash of each file. Then when install, they are hard linked to the target project store.

Inside the node_modules folder, dependencies are soft linked.

:::tip

Consider this situation, when you delete the node_module folder to bin, and clean the bin, what is lost? Nothing is lost. inodes has referance count, files are not to be removed before reference is zero.

For typical linux systems, the process of creating hard link creates no new inode.

Creating a soft link creates a new special file.

(see [Link](https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/linking-linux-explained))

:::

:::tip
Some useful commands

```zsh
pnpm why

pnpm prune
```

:::
